#summary All the available options for themes.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Implementation,Featured

This document explains all the options that are available for creating custom themes.

= File structure =

Same folder where iRTVO.exe is located is theme-folder. This folder contains one or more folders which are named after the theme they contain. These folders have settings.ini which describes the theme and multiple png-files to show the wanted graphics. Additionally folder can contain custom fonts (ttf-files) for the theme.

== Example file structure ==

{{{
iRTVO.exe
iWrapClient.dll
themes\FIA Style\settings.ini
themes\FIA Style\driver.png
themes\FIA Style\laptime.png
themes\FIA Style\results.png
...
themes\FIA Style\DejaVuSans.ttf
themes\FIA Style\DejaVuSansMono.ttf
themes\Nascar Style\settings.ini
...
}}}

= settings.ini =

Settings.ini is the only required file for theme to function. Settings.ini describes how and what the program should draw text on the overlay. 

The file is a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INI_file regular ini-file] consisting of sections which are marked as `[SectionName]`. Each section contains key-value pairs `someproperty=something`.

== Minimum settings.ini ==

In settings.ini there are a few mandatory fields. All these locate under General section and are shown below.

{{{
[General]
name=Theme name
author=Me
width=1280
height=720
}}}

  * `name` should be the same as the folder where settings.ini is located. For example `themes/Awesome Theme/settings.ini` must have Awesome Theme as it's name.
  * `author` it's your name
  * `width` width of the graphics files used
  * `height` height of the graphics files used

== Structure ==

Themes are constructed from few objects (name tag, side panel, results listing, ticker, etc...). These objects have sub-objects like position, driver name, difference. 

In settings.ini valid objects are:
  * `Driver` shows the name of the driver on the screen
  * `Sidepanel` shows the list of drivers
  * `Results` shows the results of the session
  * `Ticker` shows the scrolling ticker

Each of these have following sub objects:
  * `num` Shows the position or the number of the driver
  * `name` Usually shows the name of the driver
  * `diff` Shows the driver's difference (interval) to other drivers or driver's laptime
  * `info` Shows additional information, like driver's club, car, lap record etc.

=== Object properties ===

|| *Property* || *Description* || *Default value* || *Example value* ||
|| width || Object's width in pixels || 0 || 540 ||
|| height^1^ || Object's height in pixels || 0 || 80 ||
|| left || Object's top-left corner's distance from overlay's left border || 0 || 64 ||
|| top || Object's top-left corner's distance from overlay's top border || 0 || 582 ||
|| itemheight^2^ || Height of a single sub object group || 0 || 45 ||
|| number^2^ || Number of sub objects to draw || 0 || 10 ||

  * ^1^ Applies only to objects that have only one sub object group, like `Driver`.
  * ^2^ Applies only to objects that hold multiple sub object groups, like `Sidepanel` and `Results`.

=== Sub object properties ===

|| *Property* || *Description* || *Default value* || *Example value* ||
|| width || Object's width in pixels || 0 || 400 ||
|| font || Font used to draw the text || Arial || DejaVuSans.ttf ||
|| fontsize || Font size for the text || 0 || 34 ||
|| fontcolor || Font color for the text || black || white ||
|| fontbold || Font weight for the text || false || true ||
|| fontitalic || Font style for the text || false || true ||
|| align || Text alignment inside its borders || left || center ||
|| left || Top-left corner's distance from parent object's left border || 0 || 120 ||
|| top || Top-left corner's distance from parent object's top border || 0 || 0 ||
|| text || Text formatting || {0} || Classification after {0} {1} ||

=== Text property ===

Text property select what information is shown on the overlay. Different types of sub objects have different data available.

==== num ====

|| *Value* || *Description* || *Example output* ||
|| {0} || Position of the driver || 4 ||
|| {1} || Car number of the driver || 22 ||

==== name ====

|| *Value* || *Description* || *Example output* ||
|| {1} || Full name || Greger Huttu ||
|| {2} || Shorter name || G Huttu ||
|| {3} || Initials || GHU ||
|| {4} || License || N/A ||
|| {5} || Club || Finland ||
|| {6} || Car || N/A ||
|| {7} || Class || N/A ||
|| {8} || Car number || 22 ||
|| {9} || Fastest lap of the session || 1:23.456 ||
|| {10} || Lap time of previous finished lap || 1:23.456 ||
|| {11} || Current lap number || 10 ||
|| {12} || Average speed of the fastest lap || 123.45 ||
|| {13} || Average speed of the previous lap || 123.45 ||

==== diff ====

N/A

==== info ====

Same as in name.

=== Example of a object and its sub objects ===

{{{
[Sidepanel]
number=12
left=72
top=191
width=230
itemheight=32

[Sidepanel-num]
width=40
font=DejaVuSans.ttf
fontsize=22
fontcolor=black
fontbold=true
align=center
left=0
top=0
text={0}

[Sidepanel-name]
width=90
font=DejaVuSansMono.ttf
fontsize=20
fontcolor=white
fontbold=true
align=center
left=35
top=0
text={2}

[Sidepanel-diff]
width=100
font=DejaVuSans.ttf
fontsize=20
fontcolor=white
fontbold=true
align=right
left=115
top=0
}}}